# Mapping-Womens-Political-Participation

Project description: 

	The Schlesinger Library’s Long 19th Amendment Project commemorates the centennial of the 19th amendment in the year 2020. The project aims to reimagine the history of women’s suffrage and voting rights more broadly, challenging conceptions of the 19th amendment as a simple victory. One of the main goals of the project is to take a more intersectional approach to the history of women’s suffrage, bringing to light the integral work and complex experience of the women of color who fought for the amendment’s passage. This multifaceted project includes a research portal that will act as a centralized collection of archival resources relating to themes of suffrage, and will also feature a crowd-sourced database of information on women’s clubs and suffrage organizations. This Github Repository will be the collection point for this crowd-sourced data, which will eventually be used in mapping projects and statistical analysis that will provide a better understanding of women’s political participation both leading up to the 19th amendment and after its passage. 

Data Description:

	The foundation of this database is data collected from the records of the National Association of Colored Women’s Clubs (NACWC), an umbrella organization of black women's organizations. When first setting up the spreadsheet for the NACWC data, the choice of variables was based off of the information available in the records starting around 1895 and the variables that had been isolated in the previously collected WCTU data. Knowing the information we were looking to track, we created two sheets: one focused on tracking the officers of the NACWC conventions and another tracking the organizations which either paid dues to or were otherwise associated the NACWC. The officers sheet was initially based off of records listing the officers of the NACWC conventions. This sheet started off with the following variables: start year and end year (of position), officer’s street address, city and state of residence, prefix of the officer (Mrs, Miss, etc.), officer name, position (president, secretary, etc.). Three columns tracking the city, state and building in which the conventions were held were added to this sheet, however this information was only specified in a subset of mostly early records. The organizations sheet was initially based on financial records detailing what organizations had paid dues to the NACWC. This sheet started off with the following variables: year, organization name, city, county, and state of organization, dollar amount of dues paid, delegates of the organizations, and clubs sending greetings (not paying dues). Both sheets also had a column keeping track of the screenshots from which each piece of data had been pulled and column for notes tracking any questions, inconsistencies, or extra information that came up during data collection. 


	The organizations sheet stayed fairly consistent moving forward in the records, with few variables needing to be altered. I added one column titled “donor” to track any names associated with a donation either through a club or by an independent individual. I also added columns titled “presidents” and “delegates” to track club leaders and representatives associated with an organization or donation when the information was provided. There did not end up being many clubs who only sent greetings, so that column remained mostly vacant besides a few entries.  While most of the information in this spreadsheet was taken from financial records and thus most entries are tied to a monetary value, later in the records (around 1912) lists of organizations divided by state began to appear, which noted the organization and its representative delegate. The data I took from the financial records centers on dues paid to the organization rather than expenses. Although expenses were also listed, they did not provide information as to organizations or members but were rather focused on general costs of operations. I did, however, include financial reports of the Ways and Means Committee (income rather than expenditures), which was catalogued in a similar fashion to the normal financial records but listed separately. 


	The officers sheet was more subject to change than the organizations sheet, as in the early 1900s the organization seemed to have expanded and the documentation shifted from being centered solely on officers of the yearly or bi-yearly conventions and instead included a more subdivided and complex matrix of leadership roles. A few new columns were added to this sheet to reflect this change in available information. Starting around 1910, more categories of officer were listed: department heads, officers of the northeastern federation, and officers of state federation. For some entries in the state federation role, the state the officer was representing did not match the state they lived in or were from, so I made an additional column titled “officers of state federation state affiliation” to account for this inconsistency. Another hurdle that came up in collecting officer information was an increase in the frequency of record publication. 
	
	
	In addition to the Organizations and Officers sheets, I also created a Bibliography sheet to keep track of the source of each point of data. The bibliography sheet included a column for the links to each source, a column with links to screenshots of individual pages from the source, a column denoting the type of information each screenshot contained (financial records, lists of officers, etc.), a column tracking the page number of the page from which the screenshot was taken, and finally a column denoting the sheet into which the information was eventually processed. 
